# Containers

201 - 212

## ECS

Amazon Elastic Container Service

### Launch Type

1. EC2 Launch Type / EC2 Cluster
2. Fargate Launch Type / ECS Cluster

### IAM Roles

|               | EC2 | Fargate |
| :------------ | :-- | :------ |
| **IAM Roles** | ✅  | ❌      |

### Load Balancer

|                             | EC2 | Fargate |
| :-------------------------- | :-- | :------ |
| Application                 | ✅  | ✅      |
| Network                     | ✅  | ✅      |
| Elastic _(not recommended)_ | ✅  | ❌      |

### Data Volumes

|                | EC2 | Fargate |
| :------------- | :-- | :------ |
| Amazon **EFS** | ✅  | ✅      |
| Amazon **S3**  | ❌  | ❌      |

> **_Fargate + EFS = Serverless_**
>
> **_Amazon S3 cannot be mounted as a file system_**

### Usage

1. Create a new ECS Cluster
2. Add a EC2 instances (Optional)
   > 1. Set minimum and maximum number of instances
   > 2. Change ASG to desired number of instances
3. Create a task definition
   > 1. Choose a container image
   > 2. Choose a launch type (EC2 or Fargate)
4. Create two security groups
   > 1. One for the ALB (port: 80)
   > 2. One for the ECS Task (custom: alb sg)
5. Create a ECS service and deploy
   > 1. Create an ALB
   > 2. Select the ECS security group
   > 3. Change the desired number of tasks

### Auto Scaling

based on `CPU`, `RAM` and `ALB request count per target`

## ECR

```plaintext
https://gallery.ecr.aws/
```

## EKS

### Launch Type

1. EC2 Launch Type / EC2 Cluster
2. Fargate Launch Type / ECS Cluster

## App Runner

deploy web applications and APIs easily

repository source: ECR / GitHub

## Quiz

### 1 ECS

You have multiple Docker-based applications hosted on-premises that you want to migrate to AWS. You don't want to provision or manage any infrastructure; you just want to run your containers on AWS. Which AWS service should you choose?

- ❌ Elastic Container Service (ECS) in EC2 Launch Mode
- ❌ Elastic Container Registry (ECR)
- ✅ AWS Fargate on ECS

AWS Fargate allows you to run your containers on AWS without managing any servers.

### 2 ECS

Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) has two Launch Types: .................. and ..................

- ✅ Amazon EC2 Launch Type and Fargate Launch Type
- ❌ Amazon EC2 Launch Type and EKS Launch Type
- ❌ Fargate Launch Type and EKS Launch Type

### 3 ECS

You have an application hosted on an ECS Cluster (EC2 Launch Type) where you want your ECS tasks to upload files to an S3 bucket. Which IAM Role for your ECS Tasks should you modify?

- ❌ EC2 Instance Profile
- ✅ ECS Task Role

ECS Task Role is the IAM Role used by the ECS task itself. Use when your container wants to call other AWS services like S3, SQS, etc.

### 4 EFS

You're planning to migrate a WordPress website running on Docker containers from on-premises to AWS. You have decided to run the application in an ECS Cluster, but you want your docker containers to access the same WordPress website content such as website files, images, videos, etc. What do you recommend to achieve this?

- ✅ Mount an EFS volume
- ❌ Mount an EBS volume
- ❌ Use an EC2 Instance Store

EFS volume can be shared between different EC2 instances and different ECS Tasks. It can be used as a persistent multi-AZ shared storage for your containers.

### 5 IAM task role

You are deploying an application on an ECS Cluster made of EC2 instances. Currently, the cluster is hosting one application that is issuing API calls to DynamoDB successfully. Upon adding a second application, which issues API calls to S3, you are getting authorization issues. What should you do to resolve the problem and ensure proper security?

- ❌ Edit the EC2 instance role to add permissions to S3
- ✅ Create an IAM task role for the new application
- ❌ Enable the Fargate mode
- ❌ Edit the S3 bucket policy to allow the ECS task

### 6 ECR

You are migrating your on-premises Docker-based applications to Amazon ECS. You were using Docker Hub Container Image Library as your container image repository. Which is an alternative AWS service which is fully integrated with Amazon ECS?

- ❌ AWS Fargate
- ✅ Elastic Container Registry (ECR)
- ❌ Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)
- ❌ Amazon EC2

Amazon ECR is a fully managed container registry that makes it easy to store, manage, share, and deploy your container images. It won't help in running your Docker-based applications.

### 7 EKS

Amazon EKS supports the following node types, EXCEPT ………………..

- ❌ Managed Node Groups
- ❌ Self-Managed Nodes
- ❌ AWS Fargate
- ✅ AWS Lambda

### 8 App Runner

A developer has a running website and APIs on his local machine using containers and he wants to deploy both of them on AWS. The developer is new to AWS and doesn’t know much about different AWS services. Which of the following AWS services allows the developer to build and deploy the website and the APIs in the easiest way according to AWS best practices?

- ✅ AWS App Runner
- ❌ EC2 Instances + Application Load Balancer
- ❌ Amazon ECS
- ❌ AWS Fargate
