# Introduction to S3(Simple Storage Service)

## What is Object Storage(Object-based Storage)?

data storage architecture that manages data as objects, <font color="red">as opposed</font> to other storage architectures:

-   **file systems** which manages data as a files and fire hierarchy, and
-   **block storage** which manages data as blocks within sectors and tracks.

S3 provides you with **<font color="red">unlimited storage</font>**. You don't need think about the underlying infrastructure.

The S3 Console providers an interface for you to upload and access you data.

## S3 Object

Objects contain your data. They are like files.

Object may consist of:

-   **Key** this is the name of the object
-   **Value** the data itself made up of a sequence of bytes
-   **Version ID** when versioning enabled, the version of object
-   **Metadata** additional information attached to the object

## S3 Bucket

Buckets hold objects. Buckets can also have folders which in turn hold objects

S3 is a universal namespace so bucket names must be unique (think like having a domain name)

---

You can store data from **<font color="red">0 Bytes</font>** to 5 Terabytes in size

## CLI

### List all buckets

`aws s3 ls`

### List all folders and objects in bucket

`aws s3 ls s3://<bucket_name>`

`aws s3 ls s3://<bucket_name>/<folder_name>`

### Download object to my desktop

`aws s3 cp s3://<bucket_name>/<folder_name>/<file_name> ~/Desktop/<folder_name>/<file_name>`

### Upload object to my s3 bucket

`aws s3 cp ~/Desktop/<folder_name>/<file_name> s3://<bucket_name>/<folder_name>/<file_name>`

### Create presigned url that expires in 300 seconds

`aws s3 presign s3://<bucket_name>/<folder_name>/<file_name> --expires-in 300`

## Lifecycle

### Scope

### Transition

Transition to Standard-IA: <font color="red">minimum 30 days</font>

### Expiration

## Cross Region Replication

1. Have a destination bucket and enable version both on.
2. Change the storage class for the replicated objects.
3. Change the ownership to destination bucket owner.
